# Welcome to RuralCafe #

RuralCafe is a platform for streamlining the transition between offline and online web browsing. RuralCafe improves web search and browsing by changing how people interact with web content from a synchronous web experience to an asynchronous one. This involves changes in both the HTTP request/response model through the introduction of a intermittent proxy, and changes in the user interface to give users more control over what little bandwidth they may have available. RuralCafe also leverages various web optimization techniques such as caching, prefetching, compression, and filtering to further maximize the utility of any Internet connection. RuralCafe does not require modifications to the web browser, and can provide single round search results tailored to various types of networks and economic constraints.

RuralCafe consists of two main components the local proxy and remote proxy. Each proxy is responsible for a different set of web optimizations. The local proxy is meant to be deployed at the local area network gateway to perform caching, enable local search, and manage client requests. The remote proxy resides on a separate machine on the other end of the slow network link, and is presumably well-connected to the Internet. The remote proxy coordinates with the local proxy by accepting requests, and attempts to prefetch useful pages and filter unwanted content on behalf of the local proxy. Together, the two proxies coordinate across the slow or intermittent link to maximize its overall effectiveness. RuralCafe has a variety of deployment configurations depending on the physical resources and permissions available. The two proxies may be on separate machines from the client or everything may be on a different machine.

RuralCafe can be configured to provide an expanded search query interface which allows a user to specify additional query terms to maximize the utility of the results returned by each request. The web optimizations implemented at the proxies may be broadly configured for either low bandwidth, high latency, and/or intermittent connections. I.e. A low bandwidth connection setting would cause the prefetching algorithm to prefetch pages more conservatively or stop prefetching altogether.

We are in the process of implementing an automatic detection of the link characteristics and streamlining the installation and configuration process to reduce the level of technical knowledge required for installing RuralCafe.